Israel and Hamas have resumed fighting
in Gaza after the 7-Day ceasefire
expired the Israeli military has accused
Hamas which is designated a terrorist
group by the UK of violating the terms
of the truce agreement 110 hostages held
in Gaza exchange for 240 Palestinian
prisoners during the pause in fighting
as our Middle East correspondent Hugo
Basher
[Music]
reports
after 55 days together again mem who's
21 welcomed back by her family another
hostage freed from
Gaza this is her mother Karen speaking
days before her release I just want her
back now you know our life would never
be the
same but we will be all right the minute
you will be here we'll be fine
the choose between Israel and Hamas has
now expired the wait for the families of
the captives continues visiting the
region the US Secretary of State had
this message I made clear that before
Israel resumes major military operations
it must put in place humanitarian
civilian protection plans that minimize
further casualties of innocent
[Music]
Palestinians overnight in the occupied
West Bank more Palestinian prison were
freed from Israeli jails being back home
doesn't mean the end of the suffering
Muhammad nazal left jail on Monday but
he isn't yet totally free both of his
hands were fractured in beatings by
Israeli Gods he says he now needs help
to eat drink and go to the
bathroom they arranged us so that the
elderly prisoners were put in the back
and the young in the front they took me
and started beating me I was trying to
protect my head
and they were trying to break my legs
and my
hands Muhammad says abuse of Palestinian
prisoners was common in Israeli jails
after the Hamas attacks these are the
bruises where he says Gods used sticks
their feet and dogs to assault them
Israel said he wasn't aware of those
claims and that Palestinians are legally
detained Israel was the target of the
Hamas attacks but the pain is also being
felt by
Palestinians and we can speak to Hugo
now from Jerusalem Hugo very good
morning to you uh this is a very
significant day isn't it because the
temporary ceasefire has finished it is
over what is happening on the
ground good morning Charlie so it is a
little bit after 8:00 in the morning
here and the Israeli military has
announced that it has resumed its uh
offensive against Hamas in Gaza and it
has accused Hamas of violating the terms
of that temporary ceasefire and shortly
before uh the pausing hostilities was
set to expire uh the Israeli military
said it had intercepted a rocket that
was launched from Gaza now reports uh
from the Hamas run interior Ministry
suggest that there have been multiple
areas of Gaza hit by Israeli air strikes
and uh the Israeli Army has confirmed
that Israeli fighter jets are now uh
striking targets across uh the territory
now uh we heard from a Palestinian
Source close to the negotiations that
talks continue for an extension uh of
this Cho even though fighting has
resumed in Gaza now obviously this deal
has uh led to the uh release of more
than a 100 hostages who have been held
in Gaza but more than 140 people remain
in captivity in Gaza so obviously the
Rel relatives and Friends of of those
hostages are following these
developments very closely and also there
are fears now that the humanitarian
situation in in Gaza could worsen um
amid shortages of basic supplies for
days we've been talking about uh the
humanitarian crisis there for the
population of Gaza you go for the moment
thank you very much